moodle-local_sandbox
====================

Moodle plugin which programatically restores courses to predefined course states. It can be used to provide playground moodle courses which will be cleaned periodically.


Requirements
------------

This plugin requires Moodle 3.2+


Installation
------------

Install the plugin like any other plugin to folder
/local/sandbox

See http://docs.moodle.org/en/Installing_plugins for details on installing Moodle plugins


Usage & Settings
----------------

After installing local_sandbox, the plugin doesn't do anything until it is configured.
To configure the plugin, please visit Site administration -> Courses -> Sandbox.

There, you find three sections:

### 1. Execution time

Moodle core supports a system called "Scheduled tasks". The execution time settings of the sandbox plugin is configured in the "Scheduled tasks" system.

By default, sandbox's scheduled task is disabled in the "Scheduled tasks" system. You have to enable it there to make use of this plugin.

By default, sandbox's scheduled task is set to run every sunday on 1:00 GMT in the "Scheduled tasks" system. Please change this time according to your needs.

### 2. Course backups

In this section, you define the directory where the course backup files to use for course restoring are. local_sandbox takes every file in this directory with a .mbz filename extension, takes the file's name, searches for a existing course with a shortname equal to the file's name and finally, uses the course backup file to restore / reset this course.

Example:
The sandbox directory /var/www/files/moodledata/sandbox contains the files foo.bar and mylittlecourse.mbz. local_sandbox looks at the directory and finds two files. File foo.bar is ignored by local_sandbox because it doesn't have the right filename extension. File mylittlecourse.mbz will be considered for restoring a sandbox course. local_sandbox now looks for a existing course with shortname "mylittlecourse". If this course exists, it resets / restores it to the state saved in the mylittlecourse.mbz backup file. If this course doesn't exist, local_sandbox doesn't change anything.

Additionally, in this section, there is an option to set the course start date to today instead of setting it to the date saved in the course backup file. Use this option if you need to provide playground courses in Moodle which pretend to be up-to-date.

### 3. Notifications

As local_sandbox acts automatically, it can inform you when failures or problems occur. In this section, you can define who should be notified and which failures or problems should be reported.


Themes
------

The local_sandbox plugin acts behind the scenes, therefore it works with all moodle themes.


Emails sent by cronjob
----------------------

If you have debugging enabled in your Moodle installation, as soon as local_sandbox is configured and working, there might be an email sent to the webserver administrator (the person who gets stdout output from unix cronjobs) telling something like this:

> instantiating restore controller 0b3123770cffd351d7c7b890a7a0035c

> setting controller status to 100

> loading backup info

> loading controller plan

> setting controller status to 300

> checking plan security

> setting controller status to 600

> saving controller to db

> calculating controller checksum 2d4e16b80c8c8098fab8dd1f397ae0da

> loading controller from db

> setting controller status to 700

> saving controller to db

> calculating controller checksum 061df7eb8a9370826e16b39f86747fc3

> loading controller from db

> setting controller status to 800

> processing file aliases queue

> setting controller status to 1000

> saving controller to db

This output is generated by the restore controller used by local_sandbox and can't be suppressed according to our knowledge. You can simply delete these mails.


Method of operation
-------------------

The plugin's description states that it restores courses to predefined course states. In reality, this is not exactly true. In fact, the plugin operates by completely deleting a course and creating a new one from the configured backup file.

Normally, this tiny detail is unimportant. However, you should know that each resetted course gets a new course ID. This can produce problems if you have a hardcoded link (from outside or inside of Moodle) pointing to a sandbox course. This link will break with each run of the sandbox plugin. If you want to have a hardcoded link to a sandbox course, please construct the link's URL like `https://<YOURMOODLE>/course/view.php?name=<COURSE-SHORTNAME>` instead of `https://<YOURMOODLE>/course/view.php?id=<COURSE-ID>`.


Further information
-------------------

local_sandbox is found in the Moodle Plugins repository: http://moodle.org/plugins/view/local_sandbox

Report a bug or suggest an improvement: https://github.com/moodleuulm/moodle-local_sandbox/issues


Moodle release support
----------------------

Due to limited resources, local_sandbox is only maintained for the most recent major release of Moodle. However, previous versions of this plugin which work in legacy major releases of Moodle are still available as-is without any further updates in the Moodle Plugins repository.

There may be several weeks after a new major release of Moodle has been published until we can do a compatibility check and fix problems if necessary. If you encounter problems with a new major release of Moodle - or can confirm that local_sandbox still works with a new major relase - please let us know on https://github.com/moodleuulm/moodle-local_sandbox/issues


Right-to-left support
---------------------

This plugin has not been tested with Moodle's support for right-to-left (RTL) languages.

If you want to use this plugin with a RTL language and it doesn't work as-is, you are free to send us a pull request on github with modifications.


PHP7 Support
------------

Since Moodle 3.0, Moodle core basically supports PHP7.
Please note that PHP7 support is on our roadmap for this plugin, but it has not yet been thoroughly tested for PHP7 support and we are still running it in production on PHP5.
If you encounter any success or failure with this plugin and PHP7, please let us know.


Copyright
---------

Ulm University
kiz - Media Department
Team Web & Teaching Support
Alexander Bias

